"Thank you. If you are not going to sleep right now, I'll smoke a pipe with you."
We sat down in the arm-chairs and smoked in silence. I knew that only a very important business could bring him to me at such an hour. So I waited. Suddenly Holmes said:
"Now, my dear Watson, I'm working at a very interesting case. I'll solve the problem, I am sure. But... Can I ask you for help? Could you go to Aldershot tomorrow?"
"Certainly," I answered.
"Then, if you are not too sleepy, I will give you a sketch of what has happened. And of what we are going to do. Have you read about murder of Colonel Barclay at Aldershot? I am in­vestigating the case.1"
"I have heard nothing of it."
"The facts are only two days old. James Barclay was a brave and talented commander in India. Many years ago Colonel Barclay married a young and beautiful woman — Nancy De-voy. They were a happy family. Nobody heard of any misun­derstanding between them. But some people say that Colonel loved his wife more than she loved him. But there was abso­lutely nothing to prepare people for the tragedy. Usually Colo­nel Barclay was a kind and pleasant man. Sometimes he be­came angry and aggressive, sometimes he was sad and silent. But he was never angry with his wife. When depression came on him, he spent all his days at home and never stayed in the dark room.
"Colonel Barclay and his wife lived in a big and nice house. There is a big garden around it. One side of the house is near the road. They had few servants and no children. They didn't often have visitors at their house.
"Mrs. Barclay was Catholic and she was often busy at the church meetings. She helped poor people to get clothes and
food. Last Monday Mrs. Barclay was in a hurry for the meet­ing. She had a quick dinner and left home. Then she visited Miss Morrison, a young lady who lives in the next house. Then the two ladies went together to their meeting. It lasted forty minutes. At a quarter-past nine Mrs. Barclay returned home.
"Their sitting-room faces the road and has a large glass door. The big green lawn is in front of the house. It was into this room that1 Mrs. Barclay came first. Then she asked her servant to bring a cup of tea there. When the Colonel heard his wife's voice, he came to the sitting room. The servant was the last person who saw the Colonel alive.
"Ten minutes later the tea was ready and the servant was on her way to the sitting-room. When she came up to the door, she heard the loud and angry voices of the Colonel and his wife. She knocked at the door but there was no answer. The servant want­ed to open the door but it was locked. Naturally she ran down to tell the cook, and the two women with a man-servant came up into the hall. They could hear two angry voices — of Barclay and ofhiswife. Barclay's words were quickand quiet. The lady's words were clear and loud. 'You coward!' she said again and again. 'What can be done now?2 What can be done now? Give me back my life.' Then there was a sudden dreadful man's cry, a crash, and a woman's scream. The man-servant understood that some trage­dy had happened. The door was locked and he decided to get into the sitting room from outside — through the glass door.
"It was open. The servant ran inside and saw the lady lying on the sofa. Her eyes were closed but she was alive. On the floor, with his legs on the arm-chair, in the pool of blood, there lay the Colonel. He was dead.
"The servant couldn't do anything for his master, so he tried to open the room door. But he couldn't find the key. So
